The Jerusalem channel is made with the support of you, our viewers.
Thank you for watching.
As a prayer intercessor, I'm so happy in God's timing that the tyrants ruling the nation of Iran, which is biblical Persia, are being toppled.
The fates are being sealed of modern day villains who behave like the anti-Semite Haman in the book of Esther.
an amazing AI-generated image of President Trump is going around social media of him giving a hand to the Iranian people, chains being broken, and the original pre-revolution lion and son flag flying.
We're living in prophetic times of which the Bible has a lot to say.
Christine Darr, the current Iranian government, characterized by its nuclear ambitions and support for terror groups like Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Houthis, has historically been the primary obstacle to peace and security in the region.
The fear of reprisals hindering Muslim cooperation with Israel would significantly decrease and accelerate the expansion of the Abraham Accords.
to include the Persian Cyrus Accords.
The result would be unprecedented in economic, political, and security cooperation between Israel and her neighbors.
As Scripture foretells that when people are saying and crying for peace and security, destruction will suddenly come.
We are watching Bible prophecy unfold, and we stay on a journey of prayer
In fact, in 2007, during the Jewish holiday of Purim, our ministry organized a group of intercessors into the Islamic Republic of Iran, known biblically, of course, as Persia, where Queen Esther fasted and prayed to save her Jewish people who were scattered in that empire.
Our prayer mission was potentially dangerous, but we were commissioned by the Almighty to pray for Iran's liberation and to distribute the Word of God
Each member of our team was required to complete a three-day Esther fast before participating in our prophetic journey.
We traveled all over Iran with the word of God, and before we departed Tehran, we sent a copy of the scroll of Esther as a warning to Mahmoud Ahmad Dinejad, who at the time was serving as the nation's president.
We prayed at many locales, including the synagogue in Hamadan, the burial place of Queen Esther, and Mordechai,
We worshiped the God of Israel in Biblical Shushan, and at the mosque built over the tomb of the Hebrew prophet Daniel.
And we made proclamations at the ruins of the throne of the husband of Queen Esther, King Hazareus.
The foundation stones of his throne were covered by weeds and wildflowers, but the throne of our God endures forever.
In an Iranian marketplace, I'll never forget the reaction of a woman when we gave her a New Testament,
in the Farsi language.
Her eyes devoured the words.
She, like so many Iranians, was very hungry spiritually.
As millions of Iranians abandoned the mullahs in Islam, the fastest growing church in the world is in Iran, ancient Persia.
Modern-day Iran is a sad story of a biblical nation that's figured in prophetic events to come.
Ezekiel, chapters 38 and 39 foretold an alignment of nations that will
come against the apple of God's eye Israel.
In fact, Ezekiel 38.5 mentions Persia by name, but God, God promises to intervene and the war will be quickly over.
Presently, the Iranians are in a desperate situation.
As I've reported previously, part of their crisis is severe drought, no water to drink.
It's a curse brought upon the people by the ruling clerics
in the cruel, revolutionary guard.
We pray Heavenly Father, you garner in history.
For those in harm's way, we ask that you supernaturally shield them.
Today, before the throne of God, we lift up the people of Iran.
A nation of ancient heritage and vibrant spirit groans under the weight of tyranny.
Freedom has been curtailed, dignity diminished, and hope tested daily.
We pray
urgently for their speedy deliverance, and as we reflect on Iran's biblical past, our hearts align with God's will for the destiny of this biblical nation.
So how did the leadership sink so low, becoming a source of terrorism and funding terrorist proxies against Israel?
Before the 1979 Islamic Revolution under Shah Muhammad Rezi Palavi,
Iran had experienced a remarkable period of modernization and social advancement.
The Shah's 1963 white revolution, in contrast to a bloody red revolution, included land redistribution that empowered peasants.
Voting suffrage was granted to women as well as greater legal rights and women could dress as they pleased.
Universities flourished.
Literacy rates soared dramatically.
and a growing middle class emerged.
There was an atmosphere of relative openness and opportunity.
Iranians could aspire to personal growth, education, and prosperity.
However, despite the Shah's notable achievements, over time his popularity eroded due to a combination of social, economic, and political grievances.
The Shah's close alliances with the United States and Israel were slandered by opponents.
Eventually, widespread unrest led to the Shah's overthrow and the establishment of an Islamic regime.
By January 1979, the Shah had fled into exile, creating a power vacuum.
The Ayatollah Khomeini, returning from exile, unified the Revolutionary Coalition under an Islamic flag.
You're surfing the nation's iconic lion and son flag.
I recall at the time photos of the Shah's lavish ceremony in the desert
costing hundreds of millions of dollars in 1971.
He threw an extravaganza near the famous tomb of Cyrus the Great, and he flaunted Imperial regalia.
The world came and the world gawked.
As scripture declares in Proverbs 1618, pride goes before destruction.
So tragically, the Shaw died in exile in 1980.
Contemplating all of this through a biblical lens, we are reminded of the rise and fall of earthly powers.
The Shaw's downfall can be viewed as part of God's permissive will to revine character, expose flaws, and pave the way for a renewed purpose.
The family's crucible of 47 years of exile so far serves now to benefit the Shaw's heir, Crown Prince Reza Palavi, who is actively preparing to return.
Now, from a fey perspective, I'm reminded in Daniel chapter 4 that Babylon's King Nebuchadnezzar was greatly humbled until he acknowledged the most high God, the Pallavi dynasty's loss of power mirrors this pattern.
The Crown Prince has spent time humbling himself at Jerusalem's Western Wall, visiting the Holocaust Memorial Jan Vashem, and also praying often with Jews and evangelical Christians.
He's been an honest guest at recent events sponsored by Israelis and evangelical Christians.
Many pastors and intercessors have prayed for the crown prince and for the empress of Iran, his mother.
It's my prayer that after the Pallavi's personal gussimini, the prince will take the cross of the true savior in his heart back into his native land as a wise constitutional monarch and servant to the Iranian church.
The 1979 Islamic Revolution occurred under God's sovereignty to remind potentates and rulers that the most high rules the kingdoms of men and gives it to whom he wills and sets over it sometimes the loneliest of men.
The Pallavi's loss of throne and homeland in decades of watching Iran suffer under a tyrannical rule have been a sobering reality check, transforming imperial legacy into a narrative of survival and reflection.
Now in his mid-60s, living in exile in the United States, Crown Prince Reza Palavi has evolved from a symbol of the old monarchy into a vocal advocate for democracy and human rights.
He does not call for absolute monarchy now, but for secular governance.
The humbling of his dynasty has allowed the Almighty to do a deep work in the heart of Reza Palavi.
exile has cultivated humility and empathy
qualities essential for godly leadership.
Heaven witnessed the tribulations of his father's reign and the people's oppression under the moulas and revolutionary guard, resipology, appears to prioritize the people's will over personal ambition.
Indeed, James 4-10 instructs all of us, humble ourselves under the Lord, and he will in due to an exaltus.
Rather than being a divisive relic of the past, the prince's attitude of humility,
could make him a unifying figure, appealing to diverse Iranians who were weary of tyranny.
Lessons learned from exile could also equip polity for wise stewardship.
Biblically, trials of rejection and exile refined character.
As with Joseph, who rose from prison to save Egypt in Genesis 41 and to save his own people, are David, whose wilderness years prepared him for kingship
and the entire nation of Israel, after painful exile in Babylon, were cured of idolatry.
For Reza Palavi, years of exile had prepared him to return, not as a conqueror, but as a servant leader.
The Iranian moulas had defied God Almighty by attacking the apple of God's eye, Israel, and leading the world in terror.
Recent years in Iran have seen intensified crackdowns, including the ongoing enforcement of compulsory hijab laws, through surveillance, fines, arrest, and violence, often described as a war against women.
Women and girls have faced relentless persecution for defying veiling rules, while dissenters, minorities, and families of victims endure continued repression, executions, and restrictions on basic rights.
The Pallavi dynasty humbling, and now the Mullah's chaotic crumbling government serve as a divine reminder that as Daniel 2, 21 states, God removes and sets up kings.
So let's pray for a continued boldness amongst Iranians, especially the women, youth, and protesters who are bravely defying injustice.
May God shield them from harm.
Psalm 82 declares, defend the weak and the fatherless, uphold the cause of the poor and the oppressed.
rescue the weak and the needy, deliver them from the hand of the wicked.
Also, Proverbs 29-2 declares, When the righteous thrive, the people rejoice.
When the wicked rule, the people groan.
Let's intercede for a peaceful transition to government that honors human rights, justice, and freedom.
By faith, let's declare for Iran Isaiah 54-14, tyranny will be far from you.
You will have nothing to fear.
Pray for women's dignity and equality, and for the immediate removal of oppressive laws to bring about restoration of personal freedoms.
Pray for increasingly global awareness and support for protesters who have no weapons.
But most of all, let's pray for spiritual awakening.
Over a million Iranians have already embraced Christianity in recent years.
May the entire nation encounter ultimate freedom in Messiah.
After all, Galatians 5-1 exhorts us, it's for freedom that Messiah has set us free.
Stand firm, then, and don't let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery.
Now, a prophecy concerning eelom, that's biblical Persia, in Jeremiah 49, declares that God will break eelom's bow, that's its chief military strength, bring disaster-pundant from all directions, scatter its people to the nations,
pursue them with a sword until they are consumed, and he promises to set his throne there to destroy its king and leaders.
Yet the Almighty also promises to restore the fortunes of Islam, Persia, Iran, in the latter days.
Despite this positive promise of revival, nevertheless, we cannot overlook Ezekiel 38.5, which prophesies that Iran will be part of a coalition in the last days that will try to invade Israel but will fail.
So will we have to revamp our prophecy charts if Pallavi gets back?
Possibly, because if the Crown Prince returns, he is an ally of Israel.
Or somehow the jihadist government can still rest control of the nation from the will of the people and attack Israel as part of the Ezekiel 38 coalition of nations.
All of these possibilities call for intense intercession.
concerning God's timing for a Bible nation rich in history and culture, yet burdened by decades of authoritarian rule.
We don't pray for vengeance, but for restoration.
O Lord of Host, who hears the cries of the afflicted, we entrust the Bible land of Iran to your sovereign timing and care.
We ask you to restore freedom that tyranny has stolen, revived dreams of a free society,
and let justice roll down like waters.
May Iran truly become a nation belonging to the Lord.
May Queen Esther's in Mordecai's modern day prayer warriors fast and pray for Persia to be delivered from every wicked Haman spirit prior to the upcoming Purim holiday.
In short, we speak the wisdom of the Almighty God to the powers and principalities, binding the Persian Bible land.
Let my people go
that they may serve the living God of Israel.
Amen.
Meanwhile, the USA and President Donald Trump are experiencing a time of destiny and opportunity like no other time.
Many Israelis and evangelical intercessors believe President Trump has a similar anointing to Persia's Cyrus the Great, mentioned in Isaiah 45.
This is because President Trump is being used by the Almighty to affect changes for needy people.
not only in the Persia of the Bible, but also in Venezuela, Colombia and other places where tyrants are now having to look over their shoulders because Trump is decisive in taking action against tyrants.
It was no coincidence that many of the ancestors had been meeting with Iran's crown prince, Pallavi, to pray for him.
He met with many intercessors prior to the recent Jerusalem prayer of breakfast at the president's home in Marilago in West Palm Beach, Florida.
Consider the timing at the time of this broadcast this week.
47 years ago, the Shah of Iran was forced to flee largely because former President Carter and other Western leaders naively refused to back the Shah despite threats from Islamists who were leading the revolution for his ouster.
Along with President Carter's failure to respond to the American embassy being taken over in Tehran, the way was paved for nearly half a century
for the Islamic regime to hijack Iran and terrorize not only the Iranian people, but also Israel and the world.
However, over recent days, President Trump has been meeting with Iran's exiled friends and has spoken forcefully in support of the protesters, threatening the Islamic regime with dire consequences.
Israelis and evangelical Bible leaders are watching this space.
The Iranian regime has shut down the internet and killed thousands of protesters.
Many Iranians are already secret Christians who are courageously getting their lives to topple the terrorist government and its radical leaders.
Is it any wonder that Iran's unrest has been worsened by a severe water crisis?
But this is due to the Genesis 12.3 effect, a verse where God says he will curse those who curse Israel.
Indeed, ever since the radical Islamist regime snatched power in 1979, Tehran's government has pursued Israel's destruction.
For more than 40 years, Tehran has been the epicenter of anti-Western sentiment and the global persecution of Jews.
The heartbreaking atrocities in Israel by Iran's proxy Hamas on October 7, 2023 and the subsequent anti-Semitic events
have provided more proof of the depths of Iran's leadership's hatred of the Jews.
It would seem like hatred of this magnitude would be built up over centuries, but this hasn't been the case.
The Iranian people in the past have supported the Jews and the Jewish state.
In fact, much of the mortification of the present-day Islamist regime in Tehran, the nation of Iran has a noble history of showing tremendous kindness to the Jews.
The man responsible for this policy of altruism was King Cyrus, widely known as Cyrus the Great.
Cyrus conquered the mighty Babylonian Chaldean Empire, paving the way for Persia to become a powerful kingdom for more than 200 years.
Under Cyrus, the borders of the Persian Empire expanded to create an empire even larger than the Roman Empire.
Cyrus was much more than a prodigious conqueror.
He was an outstanding soldier and statesman.
He heralded a new style of government, one that was utterly unlike that of the Assyrians, Babylonians, and others before him.
He was the opposite of the Iranian mullahs in the Islamic Revolutionary Guard, which ruled through brutality and fear.
Cyrus did not beat torture and murder people into submission.
His conquest of Babylon was a magnificent victory.
British archaeologists digging in Iran in 1879 discovered a barrel-shaped clay cylinder.
Inscribed on this cylinder was a decree by King Cyrus of Persia.
In the 40-mind decree, he recalled his defeat of Babylon and clearly outlined a number of policies that much to everyone's surprise protected the rights of those whom he conquered.
This amazing artifact, the Cyrus cylinder, is on display in the British Museum.
The cylinder has been dubbed the world's first charter of human rights.
King Cyrus' greatest and most famous humanitarian act was releasing the captive Jews in Babylon and allowing them to return to Judah to rebuild their temple and Jerusalem.
This decision by Cyrus is well documented by Greek and Roman historians, as well as by the Jewish historian Josephus.
King Cyrus issued his decree, releasing the Jews in 538 BC.
As the king of Persia, Cyrus actually financed the Jews' return to their homeland and the reconstruction of their temple, as well as the reconstruction of Jerusalem.
Cyrus the Great was truly and anomaly amongst world leaders.
Historians agree that such benevolence from a man with supreme power is extremely rare.
All of this history is well documented by secular historians and archaeological evidence.
It's also recorded and detailed in Ezra I
verses 1 to 4 in the Bible, recording Cyrus's decree, releasing the Jews to return to Jerusalem.
The scriptures in Ezra were recorded several decades after the event.
Also, 2 Chronicles, chapter 36, written after Cyrus was on the scene, documents the reign of King Cyrus.
But then there's this spectacular passage in Isaiah 44, written about 150 years before Cyrus the Great was born.
This is where the history gets especially interesting.
Verse 28 prophesies that God says of Cyrus, He is my shepherd and shall perform all of my pleasure.
Even saying of Jerusalem, she shall be built and to the temple, my foundation shall be laid.
Isaiah appears to be writing about how King Cyrus would be an instrument in God's hands and explains that God would inspire Cyrus to rebuild Jerusalem and the temple.
The thought continues in Isaiah 45 verse one, thus says the Lord to his anointed.
That's a Hebrew word, Moshech, meaning a Messiah figure to Cyrus, naming him by name, whose right hand I have grasped to subdue nations and before him and to loose the belts of kings, to open doors before him that gates will not be shut.
So here, Isaiah is saying that God would empower King Cyrus
helping him to sedue nations and conquer vast territories.
The narrative in verse two is even more specific concerning King Cyrus' conquest of Babylon, that God would go before him, making the crooked places straight, that he would break in pieces the doors of brass and cut in sundered the bars of iron.
So please note that Isaiah prophesied Cyrus rupturing Babylon's doors of brass and gates of iron,
While Isaiah's account is similar to verses in Ezra and second Chronicles, there is one noteworthy difference.
The book of Isaiah was written about 150 years before Cyrus the Great was born.
Yes indeed, many Bible scholars agree that King Cyrus, his rise to power, his defeat of Babylon, his humanitarian legacy to Israel, his name were all prophesied about 150 years before his birth.
2 Chronicles 36 and verses 22 to 23 records.
In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, at the completion of the word of the Lord in the mouth of Jeremiah, the prophet, the Lord aroused the spirit of Cyrus, the king of Persia, and he issued a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and put it also in writing.
So said Cyrus, the king of Persia, the Lord God of the heavens, commanded me to build
him a house in Jerusalem in Judea.
Consider too that the Jewish historian Josephus recorded that King Cyrus actually read this prophecy about himself in the book of Isaiah.
Accordingly, when Cyrus read this and admired the divine power, an earnest desire and an ambition seized upon him to fulfill the prophecy that was written about himself.
So noted Jewish historian Josephus.
in his work The Antiquities of the Jews.
Of course, this raises the question, how does Cyrus learn about Isaiah's prophecy?
Well, the biblical text tells us that Daniel lived in Babylon and had an office in both the Babylonian and Persian royal courts.
Daniel chapter 5 shows that after Cyrus took Babylon and toppled the Babylonian Empire, Daniel became a high-ranking official in Cyrus's empire.
Daniel must have shared Isaiah's prophecy with King Cyrus.
Therefore, this great king knew God existed and he knew that God reigns supreme in the world of man.
Today, Israel's Temple Institute in Jerusalem, which is anticipating the rebuilding of the Third Temple, posted this interesting AI-generated artwork of Facebook of Israel's High Priest, saying that the Temple Institute, with every fiber of their beings,
supports the brave Iranians who have courageously risen up against the tyrannical Islamic oppressors.
They said, we pray for the safety and success of the people of Persia as they pursue freedom at all costs.
The Temple Institute statement said, we remember the historic act of liberation by Cyrus King of Persia, who told the Jews under his reign to go home to Jerusalem and rebuild the Holy Temple.
Well, Bible prophecy watchers should understand
that a liberated Iran today would immediately renew the ancient bonds of friendship between Israel and the people of Persia, Iran, and was surely paved the way for the rebuilding of the Third Temple in Jerusalem in our day to be a house of prayer for all nations as Isaiah 56 verse 7 prophesies.
The question at this moment remains, do you, my dear friend, know that God reigns supreme over history and that the Lord Jesus
The Messiah, the Savior, is returning soon.
All that we've shared today are signs of His imminent return.
So to escape all the judgments catalogued in the book of Revelation and reserved for a God-rejecting world, you must know Jesus as Lord and Savior.
If you have not yet done so, I urge you to call on His name and believe He is the Son of God who died for our sins and rose from the dead and
If you believe this and declare him to be Lord, you shall be saved.
The Bible promises.
There's only one man who conquered sin, death and hell, and that's the Lord Jesus.
Yeshua, Hamashiach and Hebrew is his name.
So no matter how chaotic and dangerous the world is becoming, the question is, are you ready for the soon and sudden appearing of the Lord?
Believe on the Lord Jesus and you shall be saved.
The Bible promises.
Amen.
Meanwhile, we'd love to hear from you on social media or through our free Jerusalem channel mobile app.
Please follow all my articles at substack.com and all of our videos in our Jerusalem channel YouTube platform as well as our website exports.tv where you have the opportunity to support our work financially.
Finally, we invite you to sign up for an equal email alert called exploits based upon Daniel 1132, which declares that people who know their God will be strong, not weak,
and will accomplish biblical exploits.
That's the works of the Lord in the remaining time before His imminent return.
Let's keep contending for the faith and praying prophetically for the peace of Jerusalem and Iran.
I'm Christine Darn Shalom and Maranatha.